---
author: kylestarr
date: 2014-12-18 21:16:48+00:00
draft: false
title: Secrets
type: post
url: /secrets/
categories:
- Culture
- Design
post_format:
- Link
tags:
- secrets
- serial
- serialized
- story
---

[Robert Thompson, director of Syracuse University’s Bleier Center for Television & Popular Culture, on Serial, as quoted by Wired](http://www.wired.com/2014/12/serial-effect-on-podcasting/):


<blockquote>“So as people discovered that podcasts can be compelling in their regular media consumption, maybe we should’ve seen Serial coming from a mile away,” Thompson says. “As podcasts get more and more sophisticated, of course one is going to say ‘Wow, look at Fargo, Breaking Bad, The Sopranos—look at all these great stories being spread out and talked about before the next episode comes. Why not do it with a podcast?’ It seems so inevitable.”</blockquote>


Serial is unique in the sense that you as a listener are along for the ride. You are experiencing it with Sarah Koenig and the Serial crew. You're being let in on a secret. And if you don't listen right away, the secret is already out.

Not all serialized content lends itself to brilliance. Serialization is not the key. Great storytelling is the key. That's not to say that episodic content can't house great story too, but the water cooler conversation is dismantled by the uncertainty that others may not have the same desire to catch the latest episode. There is no grand secret.

What I would like to see from more podcasts, books, movies, TV shows, and video games is complete [pre-meditated](https://www.zerocounts.net/2014/12/03/water-coolers-spoilers-and-serial/) stories built out and enfold in chunks, teasing audiences along toward a grand reveal. I wonder if Tolkien experienced a [fortunate accident](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Lord_of_the_Rings#Publication_history)? In the case of Serial, the experience has been a layer deeper. The audience has been tuning in to someone else unraveling a secret. And whether or not Koenig solves the mystery, the truth is finite.
