---
author: zerocounts
date: 2015-01-15 07:19:33+00:00
draft: false
title: EyeWire
type: post
url: /eyewire/
categories:
- Education
- Gamification
- Health
post_format:
- Link
tags:
- education
- eyewire
- gamification
- gamify
- science
- video games
---

Years back, an odd desire to complete a coloring book developed. I never scratched the itch, but I may have just found a solution: _[EyeWire](http://eyewire.org)_.

[Gareth Cook, The New York Times](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/11/magazine/sebastian-seungs-quest-to-map-the-human-brain.html?_r=0):


<blockquote>In 2012, Seung started [EyeWire](http://blog.eyewire.org/about/), an online game that challenges the public to trace neuronal wiring — now using computers, not pens — in the retina of a mouse’s eye. Seung’s artificial-­intelligence algorithms process the raw images, then players earn points as they mark, paint-by-numbers style, the branches of a neuron through a three-dimensional cube. The game has attracted 165,000 players in 164 countries. In effect, Seung is employing artificial intelligence as a force multiplier for a global, all-volunteer army that has included Lorinda, a Missouri grandmother who also paints watercolors, and Iliyan (a.k.a. @crazyman4865), a high-school student in Bulgaria who once played for nearly 24 hours straight. Computers do what they can and then leave the rest to what remains the most potent pattern-recognition technology ever discovered: the human brain.

Ultimately, Seung still hopes that artificial intelligence will be able to handle the entire job. But in the meantime, he is working to recruit more help. In August, South Korea’s largest telecom company announced a partnership with EyeWire, running nationwide ads to bring in more players. In the next few years, Seung hopes to go bigger by enticing a company to turn EyeWire into a game with characters and a story line that people play purely for fun. “Think of what we could do,” Seung said, “if we could capture even a small fraction of the mental effort that goes into Angry Birds.”</blockquote>


_EyeWire_ is the most addictive and challenging coloring book I have tried. It's easy to loose track of time while filling in the neuronal wiring, not to mention the increased level of difficulty that follows the tutorial. Bonus: It's for science!
